<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_mwk_zfc_dv">
  <title>Keys for Re-Use Only FAQ</title>
  <body>
    <p>This organization of the Thunderbird documents reflects the following key usage practices:<ol
        id="ol_dt5_cgc_dv">
        <li>Every navigation (normal-role) topicref should have at least one key associated with
            it.<p>This is necessary in order to enable reliable cross referencing and relationship
            table linking to the topics using key references. This is true for two reasons:<ol
              id="ol_qtr_ggc_dv">
              <li>You should only ever use keys for refering to topics via cross reference
                (&lt;xref>) and from relationship tables.</li>
              <li>Only navigation (normal-role) topicrefs establish a unique use context for the
                topic. If you refer or a resource-only key (e.g., as defined with the &lt;keydef>
                element), then the topic, referenced using that key, has no defined position in the
                publication structure and may not even be rendered at all.</li>
            </ol></p></li>
        <li>For a given topic there is exactly one topicref that refers to it directly by URI in a
          given map tree (meaning the tree of maps and submaps descending from the root map of the
          map tree).<p>This ensures that if the location of the topic changes that you only have to
            change that one reference in order to make all references to the topic work.</p></li>
        <li>If a given topic is only used once in the map from a normal-role (navigation) topicref,
          then that topicref is the only reference to the topic—there is no need to create a
          separate resource-only topicref for the topic and then refer to that resource-only key
          from the navigation topicref.<p>However, if a topic is used two or more times in the map
            then there should be a resource-only keydef for the topic and each navigation topicref
            should point to the resource-only key. This ensures that principle (2) is always
            followed.</p></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>This approach avoids the overhead of creating and maintaining separate resource-only
      topicrefs for topics that are only ever used once in a given map. It seems like a reasonable
      compromise between no key use and a rigid "have a resource-only topicref for every topic"
      policy. </p>
    <p>If you have a lot of reuse of topics, either within a single map or across maps, it may
      actually be easier for everyone to use the more complete "one resource-only topicref for every
      topic", with those keydefs shared across multiple publications. That approach implements a
      more strict form of principle (2), namely that there should be exactly one
      direct-URI-reference topicref for each topic across <b>all</b> maps, not just within a given
      map tree. This approach is closer to what content management systems should do, where the CMS
      can manage the task of creating and maintaining the key definitions themselves. For
      manually-authored and managed maps, this stricter policy can be a bit of burden as it requires
      that every new topic requires creating two topicrefs, the resource-only topicref with the
      direct URI reference to the topic and the navigation topicref to the topic using the
      resource-only key. But if a CMS is doing that for you, it's not a problem.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
